# 162. Idea Explanation in Mathematics

The most challenging part of this problem is how to construct the binary search conditions. In other words, 

+ how to cut one side of the array?
+ why the left part can guarantee a peak?

To answer these two questions, we need to comprehend the two conditions:

1. `nums[-1] = nums[n] = -∞`, which indicates the starting and ending of the array is negative infinity.
2. `nums[i] != nums[i + 1]` for all valid `i`, which implies the two adjacent elements are different. 

The second condition promises the monotony of the two adjacent elements.

According to these two conditions, we can find that **the array must contain at least one peak**. We can use proof by contradiction to prove it:

+ Firstly, we don't put the first condition into the array, that is this array only contains the value in `[-2^31, 2^31 - 1]` interval.
+ Secondly, if the array does not include a peak, this array must be non-decreasing or non-ascending order. According to the second condition, this array must be decreasing or ascending order.
+ Thirdly, we put the first condition into the array. Since negative infinity is smaller than any element in this array and the array is a monotonous sequence, this array must contain a peak. The peak is the leftmost element for the decreasing, and is the rightmost for the ascending.

More specifically, we can extend this statement as:

+ if an array ends with negative infinity and this array includes an ascending sequence, there will be at least one peak between the ascending part and the ending.
+ Similarly, if an array starts with negative infinity and this array includes a decreasing sequence, there will be at least one peak between the starting and the decreasing sequence.

The proof is simple. As for the first statement, 

+ `f(1) < f(2) < f(3) > f(4) = -∞`, where `f(3)` is the peak;
+ `f(1) < f(2) > f(3) > f(4) = -∞`, where `f(2)` is the peak.

According to the above two statements, we can implement binary search by assuming the monotony of the medium element. In other words, if the medium element is greater than the next element, which promises an ascending order, there will be at least one peak in the right side of the medium element referring to the first statement.